# Constructive Research

Research in engineering, information systems (IS), computer science (CS), and other related fields are usually identified as `"applied" research disciplines` due to the use of theories and practices from parallel disciplines, such as economics, business, finance, and physics to address identified issues. The "applied" designation is attributed to the utilization of cross-disciplinary field knowledge to create some process, system, program, standard, algorithm, approach, logic, metric, or theory that can be implemented, or applied, to address issues with sometimes far-reaching societal, financial, and natural consequences. Thus, a design science researcher directs their effort toward the clear identification of a problem and the formulation of a viable solution that is novel and that addresses some characteristics, components, or aspects of it to reduce its negative effects (pain and suffering).

Once a supported problem has been precisely identified, an artifact must be designed that utilizes the proposed approach to accomplish the study’s goals. Practitioners typically possess a `results-oriented mentality` where problems are solved in either a top-down (problem to solution) or bottom-up (solution to problem) manner. For instance, a product may be purchased and "plugged into" departments, or workflows, where its benefits can be leveraged (bottom-up). However, this approach is not always effective because many of the product’s features may not entirely fit, or its purpose may not be well understood by users, resulting in low utilization. On the other hand, a top-down approach, where a practitioner seeks a single product or solution to address a specific (narrow) issue, also has shortcomings.

Conducting a `narrow search` to find a solution for a single problem may result in the implementation of multiple solutions over time, increasing the problem space and peripheral problems each time. `Top-down approaches` may also result in the resolution of a consequence or symptom (think of cough medicine to treat a cough when you have a cold) rather than resolving the underlying problem (infection by the cold virus) due to a poor understanding of the problem or the context in which it exists. The `shortcomings` of each approach can be minimized by combining them in an `iterative approach`, whereby the problem and solution (artifacts in your case), are repeatedly refined and realigned throughout the research process to ensure their appropriateness.

You focused on the identification and analysis of the underlying problems during the previous week. This week, you will focus on the analysis of the proposed artifact and its appropriateness to the identified problem.
